{\rtf1\ansi\uc1\deff0\deflang1024
{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Arial;}
{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Zapf Chancery;}
{\f5\fnil\fcharset0 STIXGeneral;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red0\green0\blue0;
\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue255;
\red255\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\stylesheet
{\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \snext0 Normal;}
{\cs10 \additive\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\s1\qc\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 Part;}
{\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}
{\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}
{\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}
{\s5\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 4;}
{\s6\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 5;}
{\s7\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 6;}
{\s8\qr\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext8 rightpar;}
{\s9\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext9 centerpar;}
{\s10\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext10 leftpar;}
{\s11\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equation;}
{\s12\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationNum;}
{\s13\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlign;}
{\s14\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationAlignNum;}
{\s15\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArray;}
{\s16\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 equationArrayNum;}
{\s17\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 theorem;}
{\s18\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 bitmapCenter;}
{\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36 \sbasedon0\snext21 Title;}
{\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 author;}
{\s22\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext22 footer;}
{\s23\ql\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext23 header;}
{\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 caption;}
{\s31\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 Figure;}
{\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext32 Table;}
{\s33\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext33 Tabular;}
{\s34\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext34 Tabbing;}
{\s35\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext35 Quote;}
{\s38\ql\widctlpar\f3\fs20 \snext38 verbatim;}
{\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext46 List;}
{\s47\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext47 List 1;}
{\s50\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 latex picture;}
{\s51\qc\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0 \sbasedon0\snext0 subfigure;}
{\s61\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibheading;}
{\s62\ql\fi-567\li567\sb0\sa0\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext62 bibitem;}
{\s64\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext64 endnotes;}
{\s65\ql\fi-113\li397\lin397\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext65 footnote text;}
{\s66\qj\fi-170\li454\lin454\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext66 endnote text;}
{\cs62\super \additive\sbasedon10 footnote reference;}
{\cs63\super \additive\sbasedon10 endnote reference;}
{\s67\ql\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext67 acronym;}
{\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext71 abstract title;}
{\s71\qj\li1024\ri1024\fi340\widctlpar\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 abstract;}
{\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 contents_heading;}
{\s81\ql\li425\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb240\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20\b \sbasedon0\snext82 toc 1;}
{\s82\ql\li512\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext83 toc 2;}
{\s83\ql\li1024\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext84 toc 3;}
{\s84\ql\li1536\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext85 toc 4;}
{\s85\ql\li2048\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 5;}
{\s86\ql\li2560\tqr\tldot\tx8222\sb60\sa60\keepn\f0\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext86 toc 6;}
}
{\info
{\title Original file was report.tex}
{\doccomm Created using latex2rtf 2.3.5 r1236 (released Jan 17 2014) on Mon May 25 15:41:38 2015
}
}
{\footer\pard\plain\f0\fs20\qc\chpgn\par}
\paperw12280\paperh15900\margl2680\margr2700\margt2540\margb1760\pgnstart0\widowctrl\qj\ftnbj\f0\aftnnar
{\pard\plain\s20\qc\sb240\sa240\b\f0\fs36\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 9-Month Assessment Report\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Anthony Sergio Chapman\par
\pard\plain\s21\qc\sa120\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 2015\par
{\pard\plain\s70\qc\sa120\b\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Abstract\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300  There is a large body of evidence linking reduced birth weight and increased risk for non-communicable diseases (NCD) such as type II diabetes and asthma, which implicates factors driving fetal growth in NCD aetiology. We are exploring the potential for a computing approaches to relating repeated measurements of fetal size during a pregnancy to post natal outcomes using routinely acquired data for the population of Grampian.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \li1024\ri1024\fi300 Routinely acquired data will be linked and approvals sought. The current approach is as follows: using multiple imputation, we will address missing data. After the data are ready for processing, clustering will be used to group the data into subsets with similar traits. Each subset will be statistically analysed and outcomes will be derived by their antenatal measurements. The outcomes of interest are NCD which can be determined in children and include obesity, asthma, eczema, epilepsy and type I diabetes. \par
}{\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 \qc [Sorry. Ignored {\plain\f3\\begin\{acknowledgements\} ... \\end\{acknowledgements\}}]\par
}\pard\plain\s80\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0  Contents\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\field{\*\fldinst TOC \\o "1-3" }{\fldrslt }}
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Chapter 1\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Introduction\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 This chapter introduces the 9 month report, presents the research questions and gives a quick overview of some of the background and motivations for this PhD. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_background}1{\*\bkmkend BMsec_background}  Background\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Our group have related fetal measurements to postnatal outcomes in childhood which include asthma and eczema in a local population 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_turner1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{1}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_turner2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_turner3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{3}}}
] and also from Saudi Arabia 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_saudi \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{4}}}
]. Our work and a systematic review of the literature demonstrates that small absolute fetal size and either accelerating or faltering fetal growth are all associated with adverse outcomes. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 The methods previously used are statistical regressions and simple data modelling. These analyses consist of confidence intervals and other tests to indicate how valid the analysis is. Our new ideas consist of efficient computational approaches to find relationships between fetal and maternal data to non-communicable diseases (NCD) in children and adults in a greater scale as well as with greater confidence in any findings.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 We are exploring the possibility for a computational approach to relate repeated measurements of fetal size during a pregnancy to post natal outcomes using routinely acquired data for the population of Grampian. If successful, our approaches have the potential to be used nation wide or even internationally. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Research within this field is being carried out throughout the world. Generation R projects have included asthma origins 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_generation_r1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{5}}}
] as well as their symptoms in early childhood 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_generation_r2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{6}}}
]. Other researchers from Italy and Russia are also looking at fetal growth trajectories in order to understand any relationship between fetal growth and NCD 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_luccia1 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{7}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_luccia2 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{8}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_luccia3 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{9}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_luccia4 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{10}}}
].\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Issues we will need to address include missingness of data, comparison between different anthropometric measurements for the same individual and the anticipation that different growth trajectories will be associate with the same increased risk for NCD. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_research_question}2{\*\bkmkend BMsec_research_question}  Research Question\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Our current research can be split into two sections which are as follows: \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsub_methodological}2.1{\*\bkmkend BMsub_methodological}  Methodological\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Our first question relates to the analysis of partially complete data and routinely acquired data which are inevitably incomplete, for example in the SEATON study 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_turner4 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{11}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_turner5 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{12}}}
] 50% or first trimester and 25% of second trimester scans were missing. When there are large amounts of missing values in a dataset, can we still perform efficient data analysis, we consider this using imputation techniques. Thus, our hypothesis is: Data analysis is possible and efficient using appropriate imputation techniques on datasets with partially complete records.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 How accurate is gestational assessment. To address this we will compare fetal size for pregnancies conceived by donor insemination (DI, where the date of conception is certain) to pregnancies conceived without assistance. Our hypothesis is that first, second and third trimester fetal size is no different for pregnancies conceived by DI and without assistance. \par
\pard\plain\s4\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb120 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsub_epidemiological}2.2{\*\bkmkend BMsub_epidemiological}  Epidemiological\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 Using cluster analysis, one can gather complex relationships between fields in datasets. In this manner we are going to find the relationships between fetal and maternal characteristics to NCD in children and adults. Thus, our question is: What are the relationships between fetal measurements (including maternal characteristics) and NCD. One early hypothesis is that steady growth will be associated with a decreased risk for postnatal NCD, another hypothesis would then be that change of growth will increase the risk for postnatal NCD. \par
\page
\pard\plain\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 Chapter 2\par
\pard\plain\s2\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs40\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Methodology\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 Our group has acquired a number of sample datasets, these datasets represent the actual data we will be analysing once we are granted permission. By analysing and experimenting with these datasets we have been able to identify key issues and ideas which are critical for the success of this project. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_imputation}1{\*\bkmkend BMsec_imputation}  Imputation\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 At first glance, we noticed that the sample datasets have vast amounts of data missing. If the sample data we have truly represents the real data, missingness is an issue that will have to be resolved. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 One of the biggest problems missingness induces is lack of reliability or confidence in any analytic results. For example, 30% of population would be enough to confidently state something about the population as a result of analysing the 30%, but what if only 15% of that 30% is complete?  That leaves us with only 4.5% of the population, which would not be enough to justify any statement about the population. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 We can not, however, disregard the data with partial missingness. Information, important or not, can still be gathered from missing or partially missing data. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Imputation is the process of replacing missing data with some values
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_imp \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{13}}}
]. There exist a full range of imputation techniques from simple default value substitution (ie replacing all missing values with some values)
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_imp_default \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{14}}}
], slightly more complex ways such as mean values substitution 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_imp_mean \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{15}}}
](similar to default value substitution except here the values may change according to the dataset), to complicated imputation algorithms which use probabilistic equations to replace missing values depending on the know values
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_imp_mice \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{16}}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_imp_mi \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{17}}}
]. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Default value imputation techniques are not appropriate as they are too biased. By choosing to replace all missing fields with one value, the data is shifted into a direction which might (with high probability) jeopardise any underlying relationships within the dataset. Similarly, mean value imputation does not consider enough of the dataset to produce reliable imputations. It only considers one field at a time and does not consider the relationship between different fields in each record. This could also negatively affect the results of any analysis carried out. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Multiple Imputation by Chained Equations (MICE) 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_imp_mice \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{16}}}
] considers both the relationship between the fields of each record and the behaviour of all the other records in the dataset. We have chosen to use MICE to impute the data, given that all data behaves differently, a method for evaluating the efficiency of MICE on our datasets will have to be found. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_clustering}2{\*\bkmkend BMsec_clustering}  Clustering\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 We have been looking at ways to incorporate clustering techniques for real world data analysis. Clustering is a way of grouping data into different sections, called clusters, these clustering will contain data points which are most similar to each other 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_cluster \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{18}}}
]. The way a computer considers data points to be similar is problem dependant. By grouping the data into different clusters, we are able to analyse patterns, trends or relationships in datasets. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 We hope to find that by clustering maternity data, antenatal behaviours and trends will be made clear. For example, we might find that a certain cluster who\rquote s records all have similar growth rates also have a some NCD, implying relationships. This approach eliminates any bias statistical regression modelling might induce by specifically looking for a certain relationship. Here, the algorithm looks for all relationships without focusing on any specific one. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 By letting the algorithm analyse the data without focusing on specific relationships between trends and outcomes, we hope to find interesting and possibly unexpected results, moreover, by not specifically looking for such results, the results will be more reliable. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Cluster validation is used to evaluate cluster outcomes
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_cluster_val \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{19}}}
]. This is useful in order to assess the validity of a clustering, it can then be used to compare clustering algorithms or even different datasets against each other. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Using clustering and cluster validation techniques, we will be able to assess the efficiency and other effects imputation will cause when you create artificially complete datasets from partially missing ones. We will also be able to evaluate the efficiency as well as the correctness or confidence in any outcomes we get by clustering data. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 If we are going to use clustering techniques to discover information from the data, cluster validation will be used to test the efficiency as well as the correctness of the outcomes we discover. It will also be useful when handling missing data, we will be able to used cluster validation to check the effects on running any imputation technique to datasets.\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 R, the statistical program 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_R \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{20}}}
], has some very good clustering packages available 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_cran \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{21}}}
] for the public to use. The most widely used ones are "cluster" 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_clust_cluster \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{22}}}
], "cclust" 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_clust_cclust \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{23}}}
], "fclust" 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_clust_fclust \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{24}}}
] and "mclust" 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_clust_mclust \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{25}}}
]. They can all perform similar clustering techniques, they differ in terms of efficiency and the type of data they can cluster efficiently. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 The package "mclust" is comfortable performing model-based clustering using mixture models. This is useful when the datasets follow a multi model tier structure. Although powerful, our data is not complicated enough to justify using this package as other packages would perform the same clustering without over-complicating the process. This leads to a more efficient (in terms of speed in this case) process. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Similarly, "fclust" works well with fuzzy data were the clustering can be ambiguous. It can cluster data with levels of certainty where other clustering techniques have a binary approach, it is either in a cluster or not. Again, our data is not so complex to need such techniques. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 The main choice lies between "cluster" and "cclust", "cluster" is the original package and has more online support, whereas "cclust" has a better indexing system which is better for finding the optimal number of clusters a dataset needs. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Tests and evaluations will have to be carried out to see which should be used. My prediction for the most efficient way to do this would be; use "cclust" for finding the optimal number of clusters and then, using this number, we perform a clustering using the package "cluster". It will need to be tested but by using both their strengths, I might have the best clustering available \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_regression_modelling}3{\*\bkmkend BMsec_regression_modelling}  Regression Modelling\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 An important aspect of this project is to choose an appropriate way to model fetal growth from the maternity data. R has many regression modelling packages, the ones considered for this project are a linear modelling package (lm 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_lm \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{26}}}
]), a mixed effects modelling modelling package (lme4 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_lme4 \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{27}}}
]) and a latent growth modelling package (lavaan 
[{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BIB_lavaan \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{28}}}
]). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Each package treats the data slightly differently, currently we are focusing on addressing the issue of missingness and thus are using a simple linear model under the package "lm" to evaluate imputed datasets. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Mixed effects modelling techniques are not required at this stage of the project although they might be useful if we want to find complex inter-field relationships, ie relationships between fields, whilst simultaneously performing a regression model. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 We also have an idea, its at early stages yet, for using latent growth modelling to create a fetal growth trajectory. Currently, the data contains only fetal size variables and maternal details, not any actual growth measurements. Thus we can not create a regression model on growth itself, we can only model size in terms of the other variables. Using latent growth modelling we can eliminate that as we can take growth to be our latent variable. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_growth_trajectories}4{\*\bkmkend BMsec_growth_trajectories}  Growth Trajectories\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 In order to analyse the growth characteristics and determine any relationships to diseases and disorder, a growth trajectory needs to be defined. From the sample data, we can see that the measurements consist of some size measurements (first, second and third trimester scans and weight at 5 years) and some categorical measurements (maternal data, smoking, previous asthma and economics). \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Using only the growth measurements would not be enough. As already mentioned, we also have growth characteristics such as whether the mother smoked. These categorical data have to be taken into account. \par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \fi300 Mixed modelling is a way of statistically modelling data with mixed (numerical and categorical) data. It will be able to take into account categorical data and use it to change any growth trajectory to make it more realistic. This is no to be confused with mixed effects modelling which uses fixed and random effect equations for statistical modelling. \par
\pard\plain\s3\ql\sb240\sa120\keepn\f0\b\fs32\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0 {\*\bkmkstart BMsec_databases}5{\*\bkmkend BMsec_databases}  Databases\par
\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb60 \fi0 A summary of the dataset can been seen in Figure\~{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMabdn_summary \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.1}}}, here, N stands of number of observations (there are 2000 records in the dataset), the rest of the columns are self-explanatory. Notice that categorical values such as matsm and Quintile_SIMD_2006 are represented my numerical values which can be analysed using numeical methods. For example we can see that the mean for matsm is 0.297, meaning that most mothers do not smoke. The first five records are shown in Figure\~{\field{\*\fldinst{\lang1024 REF BMabdn_example \\* MERGEFORMAT }}{\fldrslt{2.2}}}\par
{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMabdn_summary}1{\*\bkmkend BMabdn_summary}: Summary of the sample data}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "1 Summary of the sample data" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx2390
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390
{\pard\intbl\ql { }\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2390\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3062\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4078\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5094\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6110\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {Statistic}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {N}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Mean}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {St. Dev.}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Min}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Max}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390
{\pard\intbl\ql {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390\cellx3062\cellx4078\cellx5094\cellx6110\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {matsm}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1,999}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.297}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.457}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390\cellx3062\cellx4078\cellx5094\cellx6110\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {Quintile_SIMD_2006}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1,986}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {3.602}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1.454}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {5}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390\cellx3062\cellx4078\cellx5094\cellx6110\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {Z_CRL_our}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {852}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{\u8722?}0.000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.999}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{\u8722?}4.930}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {4.799}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390\cellx3062\cellx4078\cellx5094\cellx6110\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {z_BPD_our}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1,480}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1.000}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{\u8722?}4.040}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {3.737}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx2390\cellx3062\cellx4078\cellx5094\cellx6110\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {Z_BWT_ICH}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {1,716}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.208}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.989}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{\u8722?}2.300}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {11.020}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2390\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3062\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4078\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5094\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6110\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6897
{\pard\intbl\ql {Z_BMI_5years}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {754}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.518}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {0.940}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{\u8722?}2.550}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {4.320}\cell}
\row}
} \par
}\pard\plain\s0\qj\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb240 \fi300 The sample dataset consists of the following fields:\par
{\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
bsexmf24 : sex of the fetus (Male, Female) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
matsm : does the mother smoke (0,1 - no,yes) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
matasev : has the mother has asthma (yes,no) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Quintile_SIMD_2006 : economic status of mother (1 to 5 - 5 being wealthy) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Z_CRL_our : first trimester scan (continuous number) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
z_BPD_our : second trimester scan (continuous number) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Z_BWT_IC : third trimester, birth weight (continuous number) \par
\pard\plain\s46\ql\fi-283\li283\lin283\sb0\sa120\widctlpar\tql\tx283\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb50 \li600\fi-300 \bullet\tab
Z_BMI_5years : BMI score at ages 5 (continuous number) \par
}{\pard\plain\s32\qc\sb120\sa0\keep\widctlpar\f0\fs20\sl240\slmult1 \sb300 \fi0  \par
\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 {Table {\*\bkmkstart BMabdn_example}2{\*\bkmkend BMabdn_example}: First 5 records from sample dataset}{\field{\*\fldinst TC "2 First 5 records from sample dataset" \\f t}{\fldrslt }}\par
{\pard\plain\s30\ql\sb120\sa120\keep\widctlpar\f0\sl240\slmult1 \fi0 \par
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrdb\cellx1188
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1188
{\pard\intbl\qc { }\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx1188\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx2143\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx3098\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx4286\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx5941\clbrdrb\brdrs\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {bsexmf24}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {matsm}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {matasev}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Quintile_SIMD_2006}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Z_CRL_our}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1188
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1188\cellx2143\cellx3098\cellx4286\cellx5941\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\qc {1}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Female}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {No}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{1.920}}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1188\cellx2143\cellx3098\cellx4286\cellx5941\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\qc {2}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Female}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {No}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1188\cellx2143\cellx3098\cellx4286\cellx5941\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\qc {3}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Female}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{0}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {No}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
\row}
{\trowd\cellx1188\cellx2143\cellx3098\cellx4286\cellx5941\cellx6896
{\pard\intbl\qc {4}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{1}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {Yes}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {{4}}\cell}
{\pard\intbl\qc {